# Excelfore gPTP - IEEE 802.1AS
+ Implementation of 802.1AS (including 802.1AS-REV part)
+ Endpoint mode / Bridge mode
+ Single domain mode / Multiple domains mode

## Prerequisites
+ C99 standard level library functions and C compiler functions must be supported to
build.
+ POSIX library is basically needed.
+ cmocka library is needed to run the unit tests.<br/>
  Skipping the unit tests is possible by adding '--disable-unittest' parameter on 'configure'.

To run 'gptp2d' on a Linux platform, the kernel must support HW timestamping on PTP
event messages.<br/>
'ethtool' command can check it as follows:<br/>
(the information is provided by the kernel driver, and it is most likely correct but not 100%.)

     $ ethtool -T eth0
     Time stamping parameters for eth0:
     Capabilities:
     	hardware-transmit     (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_TX_HARDWARE)
     	software-transmit     (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_TX_SOFTWARE)
     	hardware-receive      (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_RX_HARDWARE)
     	software-receive      (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_RX_SOFTWARE)
     	software-system-clock (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_SOFTWARE)
     	hardware-raw-clock    (SOF_TIMESTAMPING_RAW_HARDWARE)
     PTP Hardware Clock: 0
     ...

## Build

    $ ./autogetn.sh
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ ../configure
    $ make

To run unit tests,

    $ make check

Some of the unit tests do timing checks which possibly fail under some conditions;<br/>
e.g. if the build machine runs a heavy task in the background, the timing measurement<br/>
can't be accurate and the result may be out of the criterion.<br/>
Such fails won't affect on the performance of 'gptp2d'.

## Run gptp2d daemon process
Run simply from a console as follows:

    $ sudo gptp2d -d eth0

For multiple ethernet devices(bridge mode):

    $ sudo gptp2d -d eth0,eth1,eth2,...

In the slave mode, the console will show the frequency adjustment rate in ppb as follows:

   INF:domainNumber=0, clock_master_sync_receive:the master clock rate to 21344ppb

## get gptp time in application
Any applications which use the gPTP clock values need to link to 'libx4gptp2'.<br/>
'gptpmasterclock.h' shows what functions are available in the library.<br/>
To get gptp clock value, 'gptpmasterclock_getts64()' can be called.<br/>

To check the status of 'gptp2d', use IPC functions.<br/>
'gptpipc.h' shows such functions and data structures.<br/>
To understand IPC functions, check 'gptpipcmon.c' as a reference.<br/>

## Configurations
'gptp2.conf' is generated by the build.<br/>
All the configuration items are commented out in the file.<br/>
You can un-comment and set values on any items you want to configure.<br/>

Set an option in the gptp2d command line to use the config file as follows:

    $ sudo gptp2d -c gptp2.conf -d eth0

## License
All files in this project are released under 'GNU General Public License Version 2'.<br/>
If you want to use the files under a different license, please contact to Excelfore<br/>
sales representatives.

## Contact Us
Excelfore Corporation<br/>
sales@excelfore.com / support@excelfore.com<br/>
3155 Kerney Street<br/>
Freemont, California 94538 USA<br/>
+1-510-868-2500<br/>
